5 Differences between Browser JS and Node JS

The first thing to note here is that both browser and Node JS use javascript as their primary programming language.Node JS is mostly used on server side(back-end) while browser js is used on the client side(front-end).

Few Differences between Browser Js and Node JS are:

Running Engine:
When it comes to browsers different browsers have different customised engines of their own. For E.g. Chrome has a V8 engine, Firefox has SpiderMonkey, Safari has JavaScript Core etc.. While NodeJS runs only one the V8 engine by google. JavaScript engine is independent of the browser in which it's hosted. This key feature enabled the rise of Node.js. V8 was chosen to be the engine that powered Node.js back in 2009, and as the popularity of Node.js exploded, V8 became the engine that now powers an incredible amount of server-side code written in JavaScript.

Utility: 
The browsers console is the place where you can run your javascript code and test your web pages for different functionality while creating it simulatneously. If you are working at the front end you might need to run your code and see what the browser does once the code is executed. For this browser console window is helpful. Whereas Node js is the place where you can run any code that is not mostly visible on the front-end of the website. While node js can be used to do both frontend and backend work, still is is mostly used for backend work and that's why it is the favourite tool of backend developers. It is used traditionally for building fast and scalable network applications

Libraries and Importing:
Browser's console cannot be used to import different libraraies for adding different functionalities provided by different libraries. Imporing anything inside browser console is not allowed. Whereas Node JS can import any library by using the require function. In NodeJS, require() is a built-in function to include external modules that exist in separate files.

GUI (Graphical User Interface)
Browsers have a GUI. It is made exclusively for users to load and maintaing websites. It is easy to use and provides intearctive interface to the users, whearas Node JS does not have any GUI. It is a tool for programmers to use their javascript skills to build, maintain and improve web applications and provide user's with great features and online softwares to use. 

Have's and Have Not's
In broswer's there are some objects such as window, location, document which are used on the fron-end side of web development but node js does have these features simply becuase there is no need for them while working with node JS. Broswers need to be particular about each and every website while Node JS is used to develop and work with one website or application at a time. Node is not used to view websites. It is supposed to make them.

Execution Environment:
Node JS is actually a runtime environment for executing javascript code outside of a browser. While javascript is the language which evolved as the programming language for web development you could not use it for any other purpose like mobile development, desktop application, servers etc. and that's how Node JS was born. Node js takes the java script code and converts it to machine code to run it everywhere and build standalone application. So Browser's console can run javascript code only inside browser but Node Js can run Javascript code outside of the browser also.